please welcome to the stage Rachel Wen
CPO at webflow anuka Gupta CPO at rubric
mahes Ram head of AI product and zoom
review accelerator at zoom and Hubert
poan CEO at product board I'm so
thrilled to be here with this group of
AI allars and thank you all for coming
out to our session my name is Rachel Wen
I'm the chief product officer at webflow
in case you don't know what webflow is
webflow is a website experience platform
that gives anybody Developers
superpowers for some of the biggest
brands in the world like orange theory
Dropbox and more and so today we're
going to be talking about going
multiproduct in the age of AI and I'm
joined by anuka Gupta who is the chief
product officer at
rubric Mahesh Ram who is the head of AI
at zoom and Huber palon who is the CEO
at product
board and so today we're going to really
get into the messy details of what it
means to build build AI products and so
we're going to talk about how do you
navigate adding new products how are we
disrupting our own products and how are
startups just like you all building AI
products and so with that Hubert could
you introduce yourself a little
bit hi ubert Pon found for board we're a
AI power product management platform if
you want to confidently decide what to
build next and align everyone around
your road map
thank you hbert and
so I'd love to hear a little bit more
you know you have kind of this Insider
view of what kind of AI products people
are actually building at product board
on your platform and so what are you
seeing in the market how are product
teams like big and small using AI to
disrupt themselves and then how are
product teams using AI to understand
their customers better yeah great great
question there's a we have like 6,000
companies building on top of foreg
I'd say it's kind of probably obvious
that AI is essential in the SAS
world because if you're building product
management platform if you're building
Zoom collaboration type of platform if
you're building data security platform
there's a lot of use cases that are
built on top of the data that the uh the
products are ingesting or that you're
creating on uh in inside the product and
so it's probably no-brainer that
summarization getting sense of Trends
and insight it's
generating
new new types of data with AI on top of
that is very
valuable the harder part to decide
actually is to what is it that you
should build what AI you should build
what is the essential Ai and this is
where it comes down to traditional
product strategy which is what is your
core value proposition what is it that
competitors are doing so that you stay
competitive and I and and I'll give you
an example in our case
we we're a product management platform
and we were deciding what is it we're
going to build should we build an AI
editor people were saying hey you should
really build like AI transcription and
so that you know Zoom doesn't have to
transcribe you can do it and we said
well wait a minute what is our core
value proposition our core value
proposition is take the insights take
customer conversations and help the
product people figure out what is it
that should be on the road map so that
it's really deeply understood and
supported by the by the customer
insights and so we said we're going to
put all the other things on a back
burner and we're going to focus on this
core value prop and we're going to build
a really good AI powered linking of
insights to the product uh features that
you have on the road map and really help
there we saw a lot of we see a lot of
people though making a mistake where
they're just like built ton of use cases
kind of halfhazard L they go after
everything that's easy and then they're
surprised they don't have a highly
differentiated wedge in the market
and we see it also ourselves there's a
lot of startups that are coming at us
and trying to sell to us what they built
which I think that is an important
considerations like what is it that you
want to build versus buy there's a lot
of tech that has been built and I'm sure
that Mah you have more experience with
that but that is something that I would
also suggest to be very thoughtful about
like can you sustain a business around
the AI capabilities that you're building
versus just building something that is a
feature but is a very difficult thing to
sustain in the long term as a
business yeah thank you I love the kind
of AI powered versus AI native versus AI
first um I think it's help to understand
that Mahesh can you introduce yourself a
little bit as well I think you have some
some interesting thoughts here sure nice
to nice to be here and by the way we're
Zoom is a very happy product board
customer so thank you H for that so I
joined zoom in 2022 when Zoom acquired
my conversational AI company Sol which
is today known as Zoom virtual agent in
our contact center Suite I've been I
headed up the AI product initiative to
launch AI companion hopefully many of
you use AI Companion now it's in 12
products at zoom and which released in
September of 2023 the last 18 months has
been purely focused on taking zoom into
the generative AI age and driving
generative AI across the entire platform
and product Suite
so I think what's really unique about
you is you have like these two lenses
you have the former founder lens and
then also now you're this exec Zoom um
just focus on AI what what do you think
is different about building an AI first
company versus kind of integrating AI
power into an existing company how do
you think about that and then maybe just
the follow on where do you think AI is
in the Enterprise adoption
cycle so I I think to the founders in
the room I think you know when you're
thinking about building a company based
on generative AI I think you have
fundamentally unique opportunities
because you're not you don't have to
deal with Legacy application Legacy code
and so when we were building salvi
nobody was talking about generative AI I
think we built the first large language
model on Bert that was in in our space
ever in 2017
2018 and I think it really opened up the
opportunity to really rethink an
existing way of doing business
without any antecedence without any debt
or business or technical debt so that's
a very liberating thing I think for
Founders so for the founders in the room
I would say the number one thing I would
say is completely think about the
workflow you're intercepting with your
AI don't think about the AI so if there
are 19 steps to doing something in the
world today and you as a Founder can use
AI to take 19 and take them into four
and save people time and money that's
what you should focus on AI will become
a way a means for you to do that so
that's as a Founder right you have that
unbelievable opportunity to create
something from the ground up purpose
built for the problem at Zoom we had a
different when I came into Zoom you know
massive business you know one of the
most well-known brands in the world but
had no gen had very little generative AI
we were doing virtual backgrounds we
were doing other things so Eric's
mandate to me was basically like bring
us into you know make everybody at Zoom
a generative AI thinker and that
required uh a mindset change but there's
nobody better to do that with than Eric
Juan because what he first thing he said
to me was he said he said I don't care
what it costs quality he said if you
deliver the highest quality with the
best user experience I will I will take
care of the cost problem for you and so
it's very liberating to to hear that
because then you don't have to worry
like oh do I take the cheapest solution
do I do that but then you still have to
bring everybody in a company of
thousands and thousands of people along
with this journey and and I think we
didn't like immediately create a center
of excellence and have everybody you
know create this R&D middle thing we
just said everybody is going to ship
we're going to get into a ship first
mentality again user Centric user
focused what's the flow so think about
what Zoom does you're in a meeting you
know there's what do you want to do you
want to focus on the meeting so how do
we get a note taker to be better how do
we do you know ask me questions if I
join the meeting
how do I in a chat Channel how do I
catch up if I've been on vacation for a
week whiteboard if suppose I'm a bad
whiteboard or can I just use my words to
create whiteboard phone calls you know
can I do voicemail Generation all these
things are things that we already do in
our daily lives can we do them better
faster with generative AI on top of the
platform we already had so it's it's a
quite different phenomenon when you're
putting when you're taking an existing
business and turning it into generative
Ai and
building something from organically
generative AI so I think that's that's
kind of the the the two lenses or the
two
frames so hopefully yeah I love that I
also think it's amazing to get to have
like a front row seat with Eric and you
know kind of at a generational company
where he is bringing that kind of like
founder energy back especially around
AI all right anuka so really excited to
hear your perspective and maybe you
could introduce yourself a little bit as
well yeah absolutely great to be here so
I'm the head of product of rubric rubric
is a data security platform and what we
do is we help large organizations
especially in regulated Industries and
the government recover their data and
applications after they've been hit with
ransomware attacks uh it's a very
exciting space but unlike other
companies there's not always an obvious
place where AI is going to fit into the
portfolio
and how are we going to do it given that
we do work with very conservative
organizations that are very risk averse
and are using us in their most critical
time of need which is usually a cyber
event yeah I'd love it if you could tell
the audience a little bit about how
you're thinking about disrupting and
future proofing your core
products and then like what what do you
with AI of course what what do you think
the audience can learn from that
experience yeah so the way that we've
approached our AI initiatives and kind
of similar to what my other panelists
talked about is really looking at where
can we provide the most value to save
people time and to deliver better
experiences for them so AI for us is not
a separate product it's actually
embedded in all of the products that we
have and we've looked for Unique avenues
for us to deliver a better experience so
you'll see on this um chart we have a
lot of different AI areas that are
integrated with our core product some of
them are around how do we provide how do
we enable our customer support team to
provide a better customer experience and
resolve tickets and issues faster given
the complexity of every customer's
environments and the situations that
they're facing other places are looking
into our own product and saying well if
we add a AI assistant which we call Ruby
into our product how can we help people
troubleshoot faster how can we help it
professionals who may not be Security
Professionals respond more confidently
and quickly to cyber events and figure
out what's the best next step to take
the biggest challenge in all of this has
been there's a lot of different ideas
but how do we make sure back to maha's
point around Quality quality is super
super important people are not going to
want to take recommendations around
security and what's happening within
their data
infrastructure from an AI agent unless
they're confident that what we're
telling them isn't is going to help them
make their their environment better and
not worse and so there's a lot of risk
associated with engaging Ai and using it
so we've had to be really thoughtful
around the entirety of how we design the
user experience to surface information
and allow people to take action put
stringing together workflows without
enabling them to take actions that might
be destructive to to their environment
or their
organizations can can I can I come on
just like obervation it's interesting to
hear that we are all talking about
adding AI on top of a system that
already has a strong value proposition
and workflows and that is a very
important thing to realize because you
you can't forget that it's not just the
AI magic that you still need to build
the workflows and the structures that
you plug the AI into and so don't
confuse you know AI first with AI only
and that's a that's a big big danger
there yeah I I love the point I think
there's also if you think about AI in
your product you could almost the way
we've approached it is let's think of it
as a new way of interacting with the
product it's not a product in and of
itself that we're monetizing or is a
separate feature but rather if you were
to reimagine your product and instead of
having people go between dashboards
trying to figure out what to do or how
to do it or what actions to take you
actually just reimagine the entire
experience from what would a
personalized workflow really look look
like and how can I deliver value in a
truly different way than what is
traditionally allowed in SAS
applications yeah I love that I feel
like we think at web flow about AI as
just yet another developer superpower
that we can give to our customers I also
think Ruby is maybe a more trusted
clippy I kind of I kind of like this we
use that analogy internally and some
people hate that because they have bad
experiences from clippy in the 90s and
some people love it I mean clippy was
just ahead of their time you know um
okay moving on to the lightning round uh
can I can can I say before we go there I
just uh one one other thing that I
remembered since this is about advice
and action Blended multiproduct right we
are actually going to launch the
insights experience as a separate
product and a big part of it is because
the we are a seedb based product and the
AI value doesn't really scale that much
necessarily with the seat I mean it
depends what what is the use case but if
you're analyzing large volume of insight
and a lot of customer conversations it
scales with the volumes and so it's a
very interesting thing to think about
the packaging through the lens of the
use cases but then also you know the I'm
not suggesting to do cost based pricing
or marketing Professor from from Berk
School wouldn't like that but what I'm
saying is that you need to con consider
that when you're thinking about do I
just put it into the product as a
feature or do I launch it as a separate
offering on its own yeah I think that's
an interesting point I think we're kind
of starting to move out of this era of
just AI making you more efficient and
then moving into the era of AI
delivering value and delivering like
explicit customer value that you can
price on in a different way and package
differently into your product so I think
that's a really interesting point Mah
you
probably this is a tough question for
you guys too know how do you package it
so we're thinking about I mean if you
think about your day like I always think
to myself I don't get up in the morning
and think oh my biggest initiative today
is to have a meeting right we're having
a meeting or I'm not in a or let's get
in a chat Channel and and chat or let's
make a phone call or all the things that
you or let me create a whiteboard today
right all of these things are towards a
larger objective and so when you think
about what the larger objective is your
frame of reference for what the product
and feature needs to do completely
changes because if if the goal is to
let's say the the project team is
working on shipping a product in 60 days
there's going to be phone calls there's
going to be chats there's going to be
whiteboards there's going to be customer
conversations there's going to be
information that's coming in from
outside coming how do I keep that
synthesized how do I collaborate on that
and let's say someone joins my team a
month in how does that person catch up
right so if you think about the problem
statement it's very different than the
product statement right so I think
that's where AI is so powerful right
because what AI can do is actually bring
that person up to speed much faster for
having missed a month of that project
than any single human being on that team
could do because I can actually go and
all that Collective memory all that
knowledge can actually be harness by AI
can get you up to speed I'll give you
one small example that's one of my
favorite features in Zoom team chat is I
have a team in Japan that works
overnight on Japanese stuff for the AI
okay the Japanese capabilities they're
chatting all night long I well I get up
in the morning and I just say summarize
this chat channel for me in English and
I immediately know what they did and and
I ask questions against it I say what
were the two things that they need my
help on and it answers my question I can
then go back to that team in English ask
answer the questions and they can then
translate that into Japanese and get the
answer from me asynchronously that's
really practical example right and so
agentic applications will just take this
even further where they'll synthesize
all these products and allow me to
prepare for the day and my day involves
all these things but with a larger
objective which is to deliver the
product on time so I think that's where
we're thinking about it is single
workloads deliver a lot of value and
then put it together in the
synthesis okay I think we have time for
one question I'm going to zoom through
here we
go last question what do you see in AI
that may not be obvious like what what
are you seeing now that you're building
and you're seeing across all these
different companies you're seeing your
customers problems what do you think is
not obvious right
now I think that what may not be obvious
about AI is I truly think that it's
going to fundamentally disrupt
Enterprise SAS I don't think that people
will be content with the modes of
operation and the way that you consume
and interact with applications today and
you know as we've thought about our own
products we're like well how do we
insert this new way of operating I
actually don't think that that's going
to be a side by side I think
fundamentally that's going to completely
take over the way that that SAS
applications are AR architected and
everything is going to be a personalized
experience and a personalized uh
workflow that enables you to get come in
and surface the job that actually needs
to get done and do it and then automate
it in the future so I actually think
that's the future of Enterprise SAS as
opposed to like what exists today so
I'll I'll go next I have a few things so
one one is local AI I think local AI is
going to be change fundamentally how we
how we work with AI local AI meaning AI
PC the your devices having AI capability
the ability to run small small models on
very small devices what that does is if
you think about it is the initial thing
is oh great I can do certain things on
my local machine but think of security
maybe I just want to summarize all my
emails but I don't want to send it to
the cloud think of like
defense security government all the
places where a local model can be
secured and can actually create value
think about hybridizing local models
with Cloud models where maybe the local
model can get 90% of the Fidelity but
maybe it can go to the cloud to just get
what it needs so maybe it has your
assets that are locally secured and
doing and and can do that as an example
we're running virtual backgrounds on
local aipc if you're sitting in a coffee
shop and running a zoom meeting it it
doubles the battery life of your machine
by having that run locally so that's a
very practical application of local AI
but there's so much more coming in that
area that's that as all of us start
getting AIP PCS into our homes into our
work that's number one number two is I
think all of us are going to have
personal AI assistance we're already
starting to see that right with the
perplexities and the gleans and
everybody else trying to get into the
consumer side and then we have the work
ones with AI companion from Zoom or
co-pilot or whatever something has got
to put this together because I I work I
wake up in the morning and I think I
have to do this my personally I maybe I
have to go to the bank or I have to do
some drop the kids offer do something
and then I also have to do my work how
do we bring these things together I
think there's a real opportunity to to
bring these lives together and the third
one I'll say which I think is Eric has
said this is this idea of a digital
Avatar of ourselves the and and I know
it sounds scary it sounds creepy but I
think if you think about some practical
applications where I can have a
representation of myself doing certain
things if the three of us need to
schedule a meeting together could we
have our digital avat avatars or digital
selves actually try to coordinate find
the times schedule a meeting put it in
our calendars remind us and when it runs
into a problem intercept and ask us I
think there's I think that's going to
happen this is super practical I'm going
to take us a little more philosophical
and that is I do keep think thinking
about the divide that this super fasted
advancement in AI is creating just in
general in the society and the knowledge
workers and you said you know we're
going to all have these assistance and
that's probably for this crowd here but
what is going to be the impact on even
my ability to talk to my grandparents
about what's happening in in the world
is already
limited and so I I do think about how
what kind of a responsibility we have as
as the players in this space to make
sure that we don't like run super far
away from the majority of the society
and create a divide that's going to be
very difficult to bridge to get
everybody you know safely
home I just want to say one more thing
though I all the founders in the room I
raised money in 2008 at the when the
when the market completely crashed and
it was the grimmest time to be a founder
and it was really difficult 2009 to 2012
were the best years we ever had so if
you're out there like stay persistent
stay stay in it I'm telling you like it
this is hard but you there'll be some
big winners in this room so I hope that
you stay persistent and go go hard and
get what you're deserving so plus one